---
title: Use Cases for Population Information System
---

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to view all countries in the world,
continent or region, and organized by the largest to smallest
population.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based data access and
reporting system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database must be available and contain up-to-date data on
    countries, populations, continents, and regions.

-   The user must have permission to access population reports.

-   Tables such as Country, Region, and Continent (or their equivalents)
    exist and have valid relationships.

-

**Success End Condition:** The user successfully views or exports a list
of all countries grouped by continent and region, sorted by population
(descending).

**Failed End Condition:** The report cannot be generated due to missing
data or a failed database connection, and the system displays an
appropriate error message.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects "Global Population Report" or runs a query
to view all countries ordered by population size.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   From the reporting menu, the user selects "Global Population
    Report."

-   The system sends an SQL query to retrieve population data for all
    countries, continents or regions based on a filter,

-   The system groups the results by largest to smallest population.

-   The system displays the report on screen.

-   The user may export the results to CSV, Excel, or PDF.

-   The system logs the report access for audit tracking.

**[Use Case 2: View the Top N Populated Countries]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to view a ranked list of the top N
most populated countries in the world, continent or region where N is
specified by the user. This helps users quickly identify the largest
countries by population without having to view the entire dataset.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting and
analytics system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database must be available and contain up-to-date population
    data for all countries.

-   The user must have permission to access global population data.

-   The system interface must allow the user to input or select a value
    for N (the number of top countries to display).

-

**Success End Condition:** The system displays a ranked list of the top
N populated countries in the world, continent or region.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   The system cannot retrieve or display data.

-   The user is notified that the query could not be completed.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects the "Top N Populated Countries" report
option and provides a value for N.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Population Reports section.

-   The user selects "Top N Populated Countries and filters by world,
    continent or region" from the available reports.

-   The system prompts the user to enter a value for N.

-   The user enters the desired number N.

-   The system validates the input and constructs a query to retrieve
    the top N countries by population.

-   The system executes the SQL query.

-   The ranked list of the top N populated countries is displayed
    on-screen.

-   The user may export the results to CSV, Excel, or PDF for reporting
    purposes.

-   The system logs the report generation event for audit purposes.

**[Use Case 3: View All Cities by Population]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To provide users with a flexible report showing all
cities organized by largest to smallest population, filtered by world,
continent, region, country, or district as specified by the user.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based data access and
reporting system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The system must be connected to the database.

-   The user must have permission to access population data.

-   The system must allow the user to select the geographic level
    (world, continent, region, country, or district).

**Success End Condition:**

-   The system displays a list of cities sorted by population largest to
    smallest, filtered according to the user's selected level.

-   The user can view, filter, or export the results.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   The system fails to retrieve data (due to invalid selection, missing
    data, or a database connection error).

-   An appropriate error message is displayed.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects the "City Population Report" and chooses a
geographic level (World, Continent, Region, Country, or District).

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports section.

-   The user selects "City Population Report."

-   The system prompts the user to choose a level of detail:

    1.  World (all cities globally)

    2.  Continent (cities within a selected continent)

    3.  Region (cities within a selected region)

    4.  Country (cities within a specific country)

    5.  District (cities within a specific district)

-   The user selects.

-   The system constructs the appropriate SQL query based on the user's
    input.

-   The system executes the query, retrieving the relevant cities and
    their populations.

-   The system orders the results by largest to smallest.

**[Use Case 4: View the Top N Populated Cities]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to retrieve a ranked list of the top
N most populated cities across the world or within a selected continent,
region, country, or district, where N is a number provided by the user.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting and
analytics system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database must contain accurate city population data and
    > valid relationships among cities, districts, countries, regions,
    > and continents.

-   The user must have access rights to query and view population
    > reports.

-   The system must allow user input for N.

-   The user must select one or more filtering levels (World, Continent,
    > Region, Country, District).

**Success End Condition:** The system returns and displays the top N
most populated cities according to the selected level, in descending
order of population.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   Invalid input for N.

-   Database connection failure or missing data.

-   The system displays an appropriate error message.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects the "Top N Populated Cities" option from
the reporting dashboard and provides input for N and an optional
location filter.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports section.

-   The user selects "Top N Populated Cities."

-   The system prompts the user to:

    1.  Enter a value for N.

    2.  Select the scope: World, Continent, Region, Country, or
        District.

-   The user inputs their choices.

-   The system constructs an SQL query dynamically using the user's
    selections.

-   The system executes the query to retrieve the top N cities by
    population.

-   The system orders the results by population (descending) and limits
    the output to N records.

-   The system displays the results in a table showing City Name,
    District, Country, and Population.

-   The user may export or print the results.

-   The system logs the query execution details.

**[Use Case 5: View All Capital Cities in the World, Continent, or
Region Organized by Largest to Smallest Population]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to generate a ranked list of all
capital cities across the world or within a selected continent or
region, ordered from the largest to smallest population.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based population reporting
and analytics system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains accurate and up-to-date information on
    cities, their population, and an indication of which are capital
    cities.

-   Each city is linked to its corresponding country, region, and
    continent.

-   The user has the required permissions to query and view demographic
    data.

-   The database and reporting interface are accessible.

**Success End Condition:** The system successfully retrieves and
displays all capital cities within the selected scope, ranked from
largest to smallest population.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   The user selects an invalid continent or region.

-   The query returns no results.

-   System or database connectivity fails.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects the "Capital Cities by Population" report
option from the system's reporting interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports or Population Analysis section.

-   The user selects "Capital Cities by Population."

-   The system prompts the user to select a geographic scope:

    1.  World

    2.  Specific Continent

    3.  Specific Region

-   The user provides their selection.

-   The system constructs the appropriate SQL query using the provided
    parameters.

-   The system executes the query and retrieves all capital cities that
    match the selection.

-   The system orders the results largest to smallest in order of
    population.

-   The system displays the results.

-   The user can export the report to Excel, CSV, or PDF for analysis.

-   The system logs the report generation details (user, timestamp,
    parameters).

**[Use Case 6: View the Top N Populated Capital]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to retrieve a ranked list of the top
N most populated capital cities in the world or within a selected
continent or region, where N is a value provided by the user.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based population reporting
and analytics system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains accurate population data for all cities
    and identifies which cities are capitals.

-   Relationships between cities, countries, regions, and continents are
    properly defined.

-   The system supports user input for N (the number of results to
    display).

-   The user has the appropriate access privileges to run population
    queries.

**Success End Condition:** The system displays the top N populated
capital cities in the chosen scope, ranked from largest to smallest
population.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   The user provides an invalid value for N.

-   The query returns no matching results.

-   A database or system error prevents query execution.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects the "Top N Populated Capital Cities"
report option from the reporting interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports or Population Data section.

-   The user selects "Top N Populated Capital Cities."

-   The system prompts the user to:

    1.  Enter a numeric value for N.

    2.  Choose a scope: World, Continent, or Region.

-   The user provides their input.

-   The system validates the input for correctness.

-   The system constructs an SQL query using the user's parameters.

-   The query executes and retrieves data for capital cities matching
    the selection.

-   The results are sorted by population descending and limited to N
    records.

-   The system displays the list of cities showing City Name, Country,
    Continent, Region, and Population.

-   The user may export or download the report.

-   The system logs the report parameters and execution details.

**[Use Case 7: View Population Distribution in Urban and Rural
Areas]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to retrieve and analyze population
distribution, showing total population, people living in cities (urban
population), and people not living in cities (rural population) across
continents, regions, and countries.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based data access and
reporting system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The database contains accurate and up-to-date population data for
    each country and city.

-   Urban population is identifiable as the sum of populations in
    cities; rural population is the difference between total and urban
    population.

-   Relationships exist between cities, countries, regions, and
    continents.

-   The user has the necessary permissions to access population reports.

**Success End Condition:**

-   The system displays a report with total population, urban
    population, and rural population grouped by continent, region, and
    country.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   The system fails to retrieve data due to connection issues or
    missing population data.

-   The user is notified that the report cannot be generated.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects the "Population Distribution Report" from
the system interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports or Population Analysis section.

-   The user selects "Population Distribution Report."

-   The system prompts the user to select a scope:

    1.  Continent

    2.  Region

    3.  Country

-   The user selects the desired scope (e.g., Continent = "Asia").

-   The system constructs an SQL query to retrieve:

    1.  Total population per unit

    2.  Urban population (sum of all cities in that unit)

    3.  Rural population (Total -- Urban)

-   The system executes the query and organizes results by continent,
    region, and country.

-   The report is displayed with columns: Continent, Region, Country,
    Total Population, Urban Population, Rural Population.

-   The user may export the report to CSV, Excel, or PDF.

-   The system logs the report request and execution details.

**[Use Case 8: View Population at Different Geographic
Levels]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to retrieve population counts for
world, continent, region, country, district, and city.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting and
analytics system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains accurate population data for all
    geographic levels.

-   Tables exist for **City, District, Country, Region, and Continent**,
    with relationships properly defined.

-   Users have permission to access population reports.

**Success End Condition:** The system successfully displays the
population for the selected geographic level.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   The system cannot retrieve population data due to missing data or
    database connection errors.

-   An appropriate error message is displayed.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects "Population Report by Geographic Level"
from the system interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports section.

-   The user selects "Population Report by Geographic Level."

-   The system prompts the user to select a level:

    1.  World

    2.  Continent

    3.  Region

    4.  Country

    5.  District

    6.  City

-   The user selects the desired level .

-   The system constructs the appropriate SQL query to retrieve
    population data for the selected level.

-   The system executes the query.

-   The system displays the population results.

-   The user may export or print the report for further analysis.

-   The system logs the query execution details for auditing purposes.

**[Use Case 9: View Population by Language]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to generate a report showing the
number of people who speak selected languages (Chinese, English, Hindi,
Spanish, Arabic) ranked from greatest to smallest, including the
percentage of the world population for each language.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting and
analytics system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains accurate population data by country and
    information on primary languages spoken.

-   Total world population is available or can be calculated from the
    database.

-   Users have permission to access population and language-related
    reports.

**Success End Condition:**

-   The system displays the number of speakers for each selected
    language, ordered from largest to smallest, along with the
    percentage of world population for each language.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   Population or language data is missing.

-   The database connection fails.

-   The system displays an appropriate error message.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects the "Language Population Report" from the
reporting interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

1.  The user logs into the Population Information System.

2.  The user navigates to the Reports section.

3.  The user selects "Language Population Report."

4.  The system retrieves the total world population from the database.

5.  The system retrieves population counts of speakers for the selected
    languages:

    -   Chinese

    -   English

    -   Hindi

    -   Spanish

    -   Arabic

6.  The system calculates the percentage of world population for each
    language

7.  The system sorts the results from greatest to smallest number of
    speakers.

8.  The report is displayed with columns: Language, Number of Speakers,
    Percentage of World Population.

9.  The user may export or print the report (CSV, Excel, PDF).

10. The system logs the report generation for auditing purposes.

**[Use Case 10: Generate Country Report]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to generate a report listing
countries along with their Code, Name, Continent, Region, Population,
and Capital.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains accurate and up-to-date data for
    countries, continents, regions, populations, and capitals.

-   Relationships exist between Country, Continent, Region, and City
    tables.

-   The user has permission to access country-level population and
    administrative data.

**Success End Condition:**

-   The system displays a report with all countries including the
    columns: Code, Name, Continent, Region, Population, Capital.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   Database connection fails or country data is missing.

-   The system displays an error message indicating the report cannot be
    generated.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects "Country Report" from the system's
reporting interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports section.

-   The user selects "Country Report."

-   The system constructs an SQL query to retrieve country details.

-   The system executes the query and retrieves the following for each
    country:

    1.  Code (country code)

    2.  Name (country name)

    3.  Continent

    4.  Region

    5.  Population

    6.  Capital (city name of the capital)

-   The results are displayed in a table or report format.

-   The user may export the report to CSV, Excel, or PDF.

-   The system logs the query and report generation event for auditing
    purposes.

**[Use Case 11: Generate City Report]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to generate a report listing cities
along with their Name, Country, District, and Population.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains accurate and up-to-date data for cities,
    districts, and countries.

-   Relationships exist between City, District, and Country tables.

-   The user has permission to access city-level population and
    administrative data.

**Success End Condition:**

-   The system displays a report with all cities including the columns:
    Name, Country, District, Population.

**Failed End Condition:**

-   Database connection fails or city data is missing.

-   The system displays an error message indicating the report cannot be
    generated.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects "City Report" from the system's reporting
interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports section.

-   The user selects "City Report."

-   The system constructs an SQL query to retrieve city details.

-   The system executes the query and retrieves the following for each
    city:

    1.  Name (city name)

    2.  Country

    3.  District

    4.  Population

-   The results are displayed in a table or report format.

-   The user may export the report to CSV, Excel, or PDF.

-   The system logs the query and report generation event for auditing
    purposes.

**[Use Case 12: Generate Capital City Report]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to generate a report listing capital
cities along with their Name, Country, and Population.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains accurate and up-to-date information on
    cities, countries, and populations.

-   Capital cities are correctly flagged or identified in the database.

-   The user has permission to access city and country data.

**Success End Condition:**

-   The system displays a report containing all capital cities with the
    columns: Name, Country, Population.

-

**Failed End Condition:**

-   Database connection fails or capital city data is missing.

-   The system displays an error message indicating the report cannot be
    generated.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects "Capital City Report" from the system's
reporting interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

1.  The user logs into the Population Information System.

2.  The user navigates to the Reports section.

3.  The user selects "Capital City Report."

4.  The system constructs an SQL query to retrieve capital city details.

5.  The system executes the query and retrieves the following for each
    capital city:

    -   Name (capital city name)

    -   Country

    -   Population

6.  The results are displayed in a table or report format.

7.  The user may export the report to CSV, Excel, or PDF.

8.  The system logs the report generation for auditing purposes.

**[Use Case 13: Generate Population Report]{.underline}**

**Goal in Context:** To allow users to generate a population report
showing the total population, population living in cities (urban
population with percentage), and population not living in cities (rural
population with percentage) for a continent, region, or country.

**Scope:** Population Information System (SQL-based reporting and
analytics system).

**Level:** Primary Task.

**Preconditions:**

-   The SQL database contains up-to-date population data for cities,
    countries, regions, and continents.

-   Urban population is calculated as the sum of all city populations;
    rural population is the difference between total and urban
    population.

-   Relationships exist between City, Country, Region, and Continent
    tables.

-   The user has permission to access population reports.

**Success End Condition:** The system displays a report with columns:

-   Name (continent, region, or country)

-   Total Population

-   Population in Cities (including percentage)

-   Population Not in Cities (including percentage)

**Failed End Condition:**

-   Database connection fails or required population data is missing.

-   An appropriate error message is displayed.

**Primary Actor:** Data Analyst or any authorized user who needs
population statistics.

**Trigger:** The user selects "Population Report" from the system
interface.

**Main Success Scenario:**

-   The user logs into the Population Information System.

-   The user navigates to the Reports section.

-   The user selects "Population Report."

-   The system prompts the user to select a scope:

    1.  Continent

    2.  Region

    3.  Country

-   The user selects the desired scope

-   The system constructs an SQL query to retrieve:

    1.  Total population of the selected scope

    2.  Population living in cities (urban population) and percentage of
        total

    3.  Population not living in cities (rural population) and
        percentage of total

-   The system executes the query and organizes results by the selected
    scope.

-   The report is displayed with columns:

    1.  Name

    2.  Total Population

    3.  Population in Cities (% of total)

    4.  Population Not in Cities (% of total)

-   The user may export the report to CSV, Excel, or PDF.

-   The system logs the query and report generation for auditing.
